In this video we're talking about how to find the greatest common factor of a few manone meals.
And we've been given three examples in the first example we've been asked to find the greatest common
factor of our three monomials five 10 and 20 and let's just go ahead and clarify a few terms here.
Monomial Remember means just one number manone meaning one and no real meaning number.
So monomial is one number so five is one number ten is one number 20 is one number.
So these are three monomials and we've been asked to find the greatest common factor among these three
monomials.
The greatest common factor is going to be the largest number or the largest number of factors that divide
evenly into all three of our monomials.
So what we want to do to find the greatest common factor in its most basic level and way faster doing
this as we get more practice.
But what we want to do is break down each of our numbers into their prime factors then we'll take all
of the factors that these numbers have in common and multiply them together to find the greatest common
factor.
So here's what that looks like five broken down into its prime factors is just going to be five.
Right.
Five is already a prime number.
So the only factor of five is going to be five 10 and a broken down into its prime factors is going
to be five and to 20 broken down into its prime factors.
If we do first 10 and two and then from 10 we do five and two.
Notice that we have five two and two with our monomials broken down into their prime factors at this
point.
We're looking for the factors that are common to all three of our monomials.
So if we start at the top and we look at this first factor here a 5 right so look at Fibe here is five.
In our other two monomial numbers yes it is we have a factor of five here and a factor of five here.
So because this factor of five sort of matches across all three monomials it exists in the breakdown
of all three.
We can include it in our greatest common factor if we look at this next factor here of two.
We can see that we have this factor of two involved in the breakdown for 10 and also a factor of two
involved in the breakdown for 20.
But we don't have a factor of two involved in the breakdown for five.
So we can't include it in our greatest common factor nor can we include this sort of second two that's
involved here in the 20 because again we still don't have a factor of 2 involved in our breakdown for
five which means that the only thing we can include in our greatest common factor is five.
So the greatest common factor for 5 10 and 20 is going to be five which means this is the largest value
that can go evenly into 5 10 and 20.
Let's go ahead and look at a slightly more complicated example here.
We have the three monomial numbers six a six A-squared and 12 8 cubed.
So we've got now a variable involved of a we need to break these monomials down first by looking at
these constant coefficient.
So first we'll look at 6 6 and 12 then we'll look at the variables for a.
So if we breakdown 6 into its prime factors the factors are going to be three and 2 if we break down
6 here into its prime factors we're going to get three and two if we break down 12 into its prime factors
we'll get four and three and then break down 4 into two and two.
So what we'll end up with is 3 2 and 2.
Now we need to look at our variables here.
We have just a single factor of a we can't break that down any further.
So we have this factor of a.
Here we have A-squared which we can break down into a and a.
And here we have a cube or three factors of a.
So we can break that down into a a and a.
So now our monomials are completely factored into their prime factors and we need to go ahead and look
for common factors.
So if we start with this first factor in 6 8 we have three and we can see that we have 3 3 and 3.
That factor is common to all three of our monomials.
We can see also that too is a factor which is common to all three monomial so we can pull that out.
We have this extra factor of 2 for the 12 but we don't have that extra factor of 2 involved in either
of these first two meals so we're not going to be able to pull that out.
So we're going to go ahead and skip to a we notice that we have a common factor of a in all three manone
meals but we don't have a second common factor of a or a third common factor of a because even though
there's an additional A involved in the six A-squared and the 12 cubed we don't have another factor
of a to pull out of 6 a.
So that means that all we can take is the three the two and the a.
So we can pull those three things out.
And then what we're going to do is multiply them together.
And when we do that where you make it three times two is six times a six a.
So we get six A.
As our greatest common factor if we look at our last example here of the same thing that we did in the
second example in other words we're going to look at these constant coefficients for two and 10 and
break those down into their prime factors and then look at the variables.
So for for you in turn will break down four into two and two will break down two into just two and we'll
break down 10 into five and two then we need to look at our exes we have x squared x and x y.
We can break down x squared into X and X but we can't break down X at all so we just have X here and
we have X here and then for why we can't break that down it can't break it down at all here and for
Y squared we can break down into why and why.
So now we've got our prime factors and we need to look for common factors.
Notice here that we can pull out a two from each of these we'll pull out the two we can't pull out of
five because five is unique to this 10 X Y squared.
Bob doesn't exist as a factor in either of these two men on wheels.
We can't pull out this additional two but we can pull out an X from all three.
So pull out an X from all three and we'll get that down there and we can pull out a y from all three.
So there's a y a y and a Y and we'll pull that out there.
We know that we can't possibly take out anything else because notice here this 2 x y.
We've taken every factor from the to X Y there's no more factors we can take.
So it would be literally impossible for us to pull any other factor into our greatest common factor
so then we just multiply our results together and we say that 2 x y is the greatest common factor of
4 x squared Y to X Y and 10 x y squared.
Now I want to make sure that we be careful here with this video because in these three examples we took
out a phi which happened to be our smallest number.
We took out a six a a which in a way happened to be our smallest number here and we took out a 2 x y
which happened to be sort of our smallest number but that won't always be the case.
It won't always work out that the smallest factor that you have here is going to be your greatest common
factor and we can illustrate that by changing this to X Y here to for example to X Y squared.
If we had been given these three memorials instead where this was 2 X Y squared we only would have been
able to pull out a single factor of Y because we would have been limited by the fact that we only have
one factor of y here.
But we had two of them here and two of them here.
So our greatest common factor still would have been to X Y.
But that wouldn't have been the same as sort of our smallest factor 2 x y squared here.
So we have to be really careful whenever we're finding a greatest common factor to break each monomial
down into its prime factors for the whole numbers or the constant coefficients and for each of our variables
and then make sure that we're really deliberate when we're looking for common factors to build into
our greatest common factor.